F03GL -- modules for using the OpenGL graphics library from Fortran

  Copyright 2009-2022 Anthony Stone and Aleksandar Donev

  This file is part of f03gl.

  f03gl is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  any later version.

  f03gl is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with f03gl (see file COPYING). If not, see
  <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


To use this package you need a Fortran 2003 or later compiler. 

Unpack the files:
  tar xzvf f03gl.tgz
or
  unzip f03gl.zip
The files will be extracted into a new f03gl directory. Change to this
directory.

The f03gl_gl* files can be used without any changes in a graphical
Fortran program, and have been used in Anthony Stone's Orient program
for many years. The OpenGL routines can be called straightforwardly
with the appropriate arguments, some of which will be the named
constants defined in these files. For most purposes nothing else will
be needed.

However the package also includes a number of programs that display
some of the capabilities of the OpenGL routines, and they can be used
as examples when building new programs. At the moment these all work
with the gfortran and ifort compilers, but while nagfor compiles
without error, the compiled programs fail immediately without
providing a useful error message. At present this behaviour is
unexplained.

To run these examples, check that the Makefile is set up to use the
correct compiler and the appropriate libraries. Also set the GLUT
variable for the version of GLUT that you intend to use. Then just run
make. This should compile the OpenGL_gl, OpenGL_glu and OpenGL_glut
object and module files, and then compile and run the test files, one
after the other. You will need to quit from each test (by closing its
window) before the next one will run. The first three tests are rather
boring, but in the last three you can bring up a menu with a right
mouse click and change some of the properties of the display. From the
f90 code you can see how to do similar things in your own code. These
examples are slightly-modified versions of the examples provided with
Bill Mitchell's f90gl package http://math.nist.gov/f90gl/ and used
with his permission. They should run on both 32-bit and 64-bit
architectures. (As they were written when computers were much slower
the motion in these examples is excessively fast on modern computers.)

The package also includes the perl code used to generate the Fortran
files from the C header (*.h) files. The intention here is to provide
for the regeneration of the Fortran files from updated header files,
but we have not so far found that to be necessary.

Anthony Stone      ajs1 at cam dot ac dot uk
Aleksandar Donev   aleks dot donev at gmail dot com

7 February 2022
